# CIS 106 - Patrick Graves
Session 1: I am taking this class so I can eventually pursue a computer focused graduate degree. I plan to earn a Software Development certificate first. I'm hoping this provides better financial outcomes and job security. I assume I'll be learning Python 3, because that is the default suggestion. I'm not sure yet what I will do with Pyhton skills, but using it for work is the main idea.

Session 2: I learned a bit about the fundamentals of coding. I saw how Github displays commit changes in revisions. While using Repl.it and Pythontutor, I executed code created through via a Flowgorithm flowchart. I got a better sense of correct code from Pythontutor, as it gave me a very clear output. This is a very early step in learning to code. I hope it helps me in some way shape or form in my career.


Session 3: During these activities, I grew more comfortable with the Flowgorithm workflow. I learned how to use the variable functionality. To accomplish limiting my pay rate calculator to 2 decimal places, I found a youtube video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mHCiQJTZsww; I can't say that I understand all the reasoning and whatnot. I merely copied the Youtuber's actions to accomplish a similar result. I also used the following to calculate seconds, hours, days, and months: https://www.google.com/search?q=how+many+minutes+in+year&oq=how+many+minutes+in+year&aqs=chrome..69i57j6j0.3655j0j4&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8. Learning this information feels like a good building block to expand my knowledge.


Session 4: This week I learned how to convert my understanding of Flowgorithm coding to actual Python code. Well, that might be a bit of an exaggeration--I was mirroring the code examples in the book and performed little to no variations. This is good knowledge to build upon and gain a better understanding of coding. I used this link to figure out how to save as .py: https://blenderartists.org/t/converting-a-text-file-into-a-python-file-py/611655. I used this link to figure out the math equation: https://sciencing.com/calculate-square-yard-7891906.html. I used this link to double check that my program worked correctly: https://www.calculatorsoup.com/calculators/construction/square-footage-calculator.php.


Session 5: I didn't follow the directions correctly for this week's homework. I attempted a brand new activity (6 to be specific). I made the program in Flowgorithm. It took all day. I'm still not sure I understand how I fixed the program, but I accomplised the task through trial and error. To my surprise, I think it is much easier creating a program using code (Python) than flowcharting or pseudocoding. In the future I will follow directions better.


Session 6: I changed my folder nomenclature from assignments to sessions. I didn't like using similar words of assignments and activities. I went ahead and changed all of my previous activities to use functions for inputs, processing, and output. I've gotten more comfortable with functions as a result. Hopefully that will benefit me in the future.


Session 7: I created a new activity 5 starting with Flowgorithm. Afterwards, I cleaned up the Flowgorithm Python code. I also updated my age converter to include if/else functionality. I'm barely keeping my head above water, in my opinion. Flowgorithm is a pain, nothing new there. I had found writing code in Python less painful, but I spent numerous hours tracking down little mistakes for my age converter. I haven't put all the dots together yet and hopefully that happens sooner than later.

Session 8: At the risk of sounding repetitive, Flowgorithm gave me problems again. I don't know whether the cause is a logical disconnect, the syntax, lack of tutorials, or other. The difference in time spent on Flowgorithm and coding in Python is night and day.  After a while, I figured out it was better to pump out source python code and take that into an IDE to debug. That worked well. From now on, I will take Flowgorithm problems to an IDE for debugging.

Session 9: I spent the better part of 36 hours doing these two activities. There are numerous reasons for this, including my own stupidity. A chunk of time was spent trying to figure out how to create a true test-after "do while" loop in Activity 1, in which the conditional involves a carriage return; problem with doing this is that the input must be tested as an integer (for integers) and as a string (when carriage returning)--breaking program. So I created something short of a true "do while" with help from this website: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/30315000/press-enter-to-exit-while-loop-in-python-3-4. Activity two involved similar problems. I originally created a random number guesser. However, I couldn't get Flowgorithm to generate numbers within the range of my high and low variables--I believe it can be done, but perhaps not in Flowgorithm. Anyway, this wasn't a great week for me.

Session 10: The "for activity 3" was smoother sailing than much of last week. The toughest part was figuring out how to alternate between adding and substracting. This site helped: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/39933509/alternate-between-add-and-subtract-on-a-list-of-numbers. Flowgorithm was not allowing the stated Python solution (count % 2). So I tinkered and found a similar workaround. It turned out the "nested for loop activity 1" was the harder task. Here are two links which helped me: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CqaB4B7xzNA and https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Dpkfh-hX4-M. In both cases, I have no idea how they are getting their columns and rows to print without said instruction (though I do see the muliplication getting a print command). My understanding of Python needs a ton of work.
